blog: Add Kahoot alternative blog post (#25945)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2024-05-09-meetup-kahoot-alternative.mdx

The game has two screens: the host screen and the player screen. The host can start a game by choosing one of the available quiz sets. Because we had meetups from around the globe, we created the same 10-question quiz sets in 4 different languages.

![Dashboard](/images/blog/oss-kahoot-alternative/dashboard.png)

Once the host clicks the button to start a game, a lobby screen with a QR code appears. The players can scan the QR codes with their phones, name themselves, and enter the game.

The host can start the quiz game once everyone in the room has entered the lobby. The players are shown the question first and then the choices five seconds later for each question. They answer the quiz on their phones, and the sooner they answer, the more points they get.

Once all the questions are answered, the points are summed up, and the leaderboard is shown on the screen.

Actual leaderboard from the Tokyo meetup.

![Leaderboard from Tokyo](/images/blog/oss-kahoot-alternative/results.png)

## Building the Kahoot alternative app

> I will not go into every implementation detail, as it would be long, but you can find the GitHub repository with the full code [here](https://github.com/supabase-community/kahoot-alternative). The app is a Next.js app without using any server-side rendering, and it utilizes three core Supabase features: auth, database, and Real-Time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I will not go into every implementation detail, as it would be long, but you can find the GitHub repository with the full code [here](https://github.com/supabase-community/kahoot-alternative). The app is a Next.js app without using any server-side rendering, and it utilizes three core Supabase features: auth, database, and realtime.
```

When a user registers for a game, we check if the user is already signed in, and if not, the app signs them in.

```tsx
const { data: sessionData, error: sessionError } = await supabase.auth.getSession()

let userId: string | null = null

if (sessionData.session) {
  userId = sessionData.session?.user.id ?? null
} else {
  const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInAnonymously()
  userId = data?.user?.id ?? null
}
```

### Database

The database stores everything that happens in the app. We have 6 different tables to store everything from the questions to the answers that users leave for each question in a game. Each time the admin clicks the “Start Game” button of a quiz set from the host dashboard, a new game is created. The database is designed so that the same set of users can play games with the same quiz set multiple times. The full table definitions under `superbase/migrations` in the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/supabase-community/kahoot-alternative/tree/main/supabase/migrations).

![Database diagram](/images/blog/oss-kahoot-alternative/erd.png)

### Realtime

> Realtime is the core of the app. The critical feature of Kahoot is to keep all the connected clients in sync with the game state, so we heavily relied on Realtime to share the game states. The admin subscribes to Postgres changes on the `participants`, `games`, and `answers` table. The subscription on the `participants` table is used when it first displays the list of participants on the lobby screen. The subscription on the games table is used to listen to the game state as the admin clicks the next button to move through the questions. Subscriptions on the answers table count how many people have answered the question so that the results can be displayed when everyone has answered the question.

Reviewer: Do we want to capitalize "realtime" everywhere here?
